[WIND RUSHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Cosmic Disclosure."
I'm your host, George Noory,
and I'm here with Emery Smith.
Portal missions--
what's it like to enter
into another dimension?
Emery, welcome back.
This is going to be fascinating.
>>EMERY SMITH: Thanks
for having me, George.
>>GEORGE: These
portals-- what do
you have to do to gear
up to go into one?
>>SMITH: Yes, I mean,
there's a lot behind that.
I mean, not only just
getting in shape for this
because you might be
going somewhere where
the air is a little thinner.
And if you haven't been
training at high altitude,
you're going to have a hard time
trekking and a half mile out
and a half mile in.
So there is a lot
of physical fitness
training you do have to go
through based on the mission.
The mission also by the way,
it's not like they call you up
and say, oh, you're
going away tomorrow.
No, this is something
that's planned out
for months, and months, and
months, and months in advance.
So you get to meet your team.
You get to establish a rapport,
establish personality profiles
with each other to get that
camaraderie to work together
for the mission.
So what we do is the first
thing that would happen
is there will be a
mission plan, let's say,
three to six months out.
And they would get
a group together.
And it depends what
the mission is for.
Do they need a botanist?
Do they need, you know--
what kind of--
>>GEORGE: Right, a medical
doctor or something.
>>SMITH: Right.
What is the mission?
What kind of engineers
you need for this mission?
What type of a geologist do
And so it's a very
specific thing.
And there's usually around
six to seven people in a team.
There's always a
medic that can do
three or four different things.
There's usually
a security person
that also can do three
or four different things.
And then you have
the main scientists
that are there for specifics
for whatever that mission.
So we'll go through three
months of number one,
just education of the
background of where we're going.
So we get to see the debriefings
of the past 150 missions.
>>GEORGE: Seems
pretty intensive.
>>SMITH: It's very intensive.
And it's a lot of
information all at once
because there's some
things you can touch.
There's some things
you can't touch,
which they found
out the hard way.
So there's these
rules, and regulations,
and protocols
specifically that you
have to follow when going
through any mission-oriented
portal traveling because if
you don't, things can go bad
really quick, such
as the weather,
such as someone getting injured.
Even something like that
will slow up the mission
tremendously.
And when you only have anywhere
from 15 minutes to a few hours
max to do your
mission, you really
have to optimize that time.
So it is this kind of running
in and running out type of thing
for safety reasons
because like I said,
they haven't really conquered
how long that door stays open.
>>GEORGE: Do they know
where they're going
once they enter the portal?
>>SMITH: Yeah, in the briefings,
we have lots of video,
lots of pictures of prior
teams going in and out.
So we have an excellent idea
of what we're going to expect.
It's like reading
the map of London
before you go to
England to visit.
And you kind of know
what's going to be there.
There are however,
occasions that sometimes
this asymmetrically
doesn't work out so well.
And there was one time where
we actually went to a place
and it was the wrong place.
>>GEORGE: The wrong place?
>>SMITH: It was the
completely wrong place.
We were supposed to
arrive in a desert.
We arrived in a
tropical jungle bog.
And it was a very
we weren't prepared.
The suits were not prepared
correctly that we had to use.
The equipment was wrong.
And luckily, we were able
to turn around and get out
of there before the last man
came through, which it was just
a different area.
And this area, we'll
have to go back
because maybe this
was an area that
was never explored because
we've never seen it before.
>>GEORGE: What
else could go wrong
that you wouldn't anticipate?
>>SMITH: Some of
the scariest things
are the geological events
on a planet that you're not
familiar with.
We sometimes bring
these special dogs
that are trained for frequency.
And they can hear and tell you
before an earthquake happens
or a volcano erupts.
And they have special senses
that they've been trained on.
They also can smell
certain things.
They've been trained
as a puppy to learn
different scents of minerals,
different scents of plant
life, different scents of
different types of genetics
that can smell many, many
different things and sense
and hear frequencies
that we can't hear.
There was an incident
where we were walking
and there was an underground
bubble just a few feet
below the ground.
And someone was just
walking and stepped on it.
And it released this noxious,
very poisonous gas right
through the surface
and you could see it.
>>GEORGE: Without the dog,
you could have gotten killed.
>>SMITH: Right, we could
have gotten killed.
So they can pick up on the
slightest little things.
And so it's a
protective measure.
>>GEORGE: Do the
dogs that you take--
are they wearing
special outfits too?
>>SMITH: Yes, they are.
they have-- it depends
on where we're going
and what type of
environments there.
Sometimes they just
go as themselves
with a little backpack
and all their equipment.
>>GEORGE: A little
leash and off you go.
>>SMITH: Right.
And sometimes, they're not.
Sometimes, they have special
helmets for these dogs.
They always have eye
protection all the time.
They wear these giant goggles--
these special iridium
goggles like you
see on the astronauts helmets--
when they go to these things.
Some of these can be waterproof.
They actually have special
designed suits for these dogs
where they actually have
their own helmet system
and they have ways to read
the atmosphere for testing.
So it just depends on
the type of mission
and where they're going.
>>GEORGE: Is there
a specific breed
that is better than another,
like German Shepherds
or something like that?
>>SMITH: No, no.
Some of the breeds that we use
mostly are Mastiffs because--
>>GEORGE: Those are big dog.
>>SMITH: --they're
big and burly and they
can carry a lot of weight.
And you have to
understand when you
put a dog in a suit
and a lot of weight,
you do need some
strong animal to do
that plus their sense
of smell is really good.
And that being said,
going back to the threats,
one of the scariest
things for me
are like earthquakes, which
I've been involved with hardly
ever on planet Earth.
But through these events
like it just happens.
>>GEORGE: Sure.
>>SMITH: Also storms can
brew up out of nowhere.
So we have a lot
of cool equipment.
We have specialists that
monitor the weather.
Sometimes, we have
also types of robots
that are with us that
collect this data
and using special equipment
to monitor the area--
just the atmosphere, the
ground, special sensors
are in the ground.
>>GEORGE: In case
something changes.
>>SMITH: Right.
And you have the dog too.
And then you have the
team that are just
trying to get their jobs done.
We're just trying to get
in and get out safely.
That's our job and
very mission oriented.
We have special suits
depending on where
we're going, depending
on the pressure,
and how hospitable
the areas that we're
going to be going to.
Sometimes, we have our
own pressurized suits.
They're kind of like
a thin astronaut suit,
but you couldn't survive
on a spacewalk for sure.
>>GEORGE: What about helmets?
>>SMITH: Yeah, we have
helmets that we use today
for salvaging space wreckage.
It's a very hexagonal helmet
that comes onto your suit.
And you're in constant contact.
Everyone's always
in constant contact
until you see something
that's really amazing.
Like one, time the
sky at one of these
places where it's
constantly changing colors.
It bleeds from
light blue to violet
to pink to yellow to red.
It's like this weird
cosmic colors--
like the whole sky does this.
So we thought it
was just because
of where we were that our
eyes couldn't really see.
We thought it was a problem with
the human body was not able to.
But they linked it to some
sort of atmospheric gas
that was surrounding the planet,
kind of the Aurora Borealis.
The whole sky was like this.
So it kind of made us sick as
we were hiking down this trail,
I remember.
And the constant
changing of the colors
were making us like nauseated.
So they had to
use a special film
that they made
special helmets just
for this planet that allows the
sky to look the same color all
the time.
>>GEORGE: So you're saying the
changing colors had some impact
on how you felt?
>>SMITH: Yes, it did.
Yeah, it had a nauseating
type of feeling that everyone
experienced, even the dog.
>>GEORGE: Now, you had mentioned
the members of the team--
some were medical, some were
security, a lot of scientists.
Who picks the team?
>>SMITH: Well, there's
these team managers
that are put in place in these
things that have been running
it for a very long time.
Some are very new.
Some are very old.
So they go in and
say, this is what
we need to do for
this specific mission.
We need to get this
type of crystal.
We need to get
this type of plant,
get some samples of
this type of water.
I was fortunate enough
to do a dozen of these
because they always
need a field medic.
They always need someone
with the experience
I had with the biology
of plants, and animals,
and extraterrestrials,
and things
of other than Earth origin.
So I was harvesting plant
material, and crystals,
and dirt, and water,
and things like that.
And at the same time, I
was also security and also
a field medic.
>>GEORGE: How many
missions were you on?
>>SMITH: A dozen--
about a dozen.
>>GEORGE: Of all the
missions that you have,
is there one that
really stands out
and can you tell us
what it was like?
>>SMITH: One of the
missions that we went on
was this planet I was
telling you about.
It looked like a desert and it
had this color changing sky.
And I'll have to get back to
that because it was probably
one of the most amazing places I
had been because the lakes that
were there.
And some of the trees and things
were all this bioluminescent,
iridescent colors.
They weren't putting
off light, but the light
from the atmosphere was
reflecting off of them.
So it was like a chrome
world where plants
and very large trees--
like you could not see
the tops of these trees.
Kind of like redwoods, but
more like redwoods that
looked like Christmas trees.
So really big in that triangular
formation type things.
And kind of like
pine needles too.
>>GEORGE: Like a mirage almost.
>>SMITH: Right, it's like
a mirage, but not blurry.
Everything's crystal clear.
But I think it was because
of all this reflection
and the lights
from the atmosphere
I think were making
everyone nauseated when
you were trying to do your job.
So I was lucky enough to go
back there one other time
and with these helmets.
And they were allowing
us to easily just see
in one color spectrum.
And it wasn't affecting us and
you could see really clear.
The water was the
most amazing thing
because it looked like the
liquid in a light sticks.
Did you ever see those lights--
>>GEORGE: Yes.
>>SMITH: --and like the
kids would use on Halloween?
>>GEORGE: Yeah.
>>SMITH: And then
so the whole lake
was like this
bioluminescent moving.
And it was just a lake and it
constantly had small waves.
And we didn't understand
how could this small lake--
maybe 20 acres or so--
have waves in it--
like two feet waves.
>>GEORGE: Because it's
self-contained, right?
>>SMITH: Yeah, it's
self-contained.
And this is also one
of the first places
I experienced the earthquake,
which is very unsettling.
When you're doing
something as a team,
sometimes someone else has to go
maybe 300 yards away from you.
So we're kind of spread
out a little bit.
And we don't stay together
like scuba divers.
We go out and do our thing.
We all have maps already of
what we're supposed to do.
We have special
GPSes that we could
see on our heads-up display.
We know where everyone's at.
We can immediately find
out if you're with me,
I was like, what's
George's heart rate.
Is he OK?
Plus the robot that's with us
is always monitoring everything.
So if something did happen
where someone even-- you know,
they have gyros in these
suits, so they know if we fall.
So that they will know
immediately if we fall,
it will set off an alarm.
And that's also scary because
we had someone fall off a small
cliff because the ground
looked like it was solid,
but it wasn't.
And this is another thing with
the geologists that are there.
And they take these
seismic imprints
from these robotic
units that will
shoot like a wave a frequency
or a sonic wave into that
and it builds.
So we want to know
where we're at--
is that ground even supported?
Because you could just be
walking along and poof,
he's gone.
So before we do
that, we get there.
The robot runs all the
tests on the atmosphere,
on the ground, and everything.
We have these perfect
volumetric images of everything,
so we know, all right, this
is safe up until this area.
But these things happen.
And then as soon as
someone gets injured,
now the mission is aborted.
This becomes a
life-saving mission.
>>GEORGE: One person gets
hurt, you call a come back?
>>SMITH: You cancel the mission
and you bring the person back.
>>GEORGE: Let's say
you've done your mission.
When do they send you out again?
>>SMITH: It depends.
Like I said, you might
be training for two,
three missions at one time.
So you might be in
that three or six
months preparing to do maybe
a mission every other month.
It just depends on what
they called you to do,
what missions they
want you to be on.
I've never really done a
mission in more than one
per like month.
I've never done--
>>GEORGE: That's still a lot.
>>SMITH: --two in
the same month,
but I was only part
of that program
for a short period of time.
>>GEORGE: Where do you
train, on this planet?
>>SMITH: You train
in the facility,
wherever that facility is.
This facility was in
northern New Mexico
in its own section I'll say,
not associated with the bases.
>>GEORGE: Underground?
>>SMITH: Underground, mm-hm.
And they have an area there
that is like a classroom--
very basic.
And you get to talk to sometimes
people that have already
been there.
So every day, it's kind
of like a little school.
You have about two to
three hours of education.
And then you have, of
course, your physical fitness
is about three hours a day.
And then you also
get trained in how
to work the robots, and the
different types of computers,
and different types of devices
you're going to be using.
You go through scenarios
where we will actually
dress up and just walk
outside in the desert,
and just like use our equipment,
get very comfortable with it.
We'll do fake things--
a lot of fake little
missions before we
go to make sure
everyone is comfortable.
And then we do a course.
>>GEORGE: And then you go.
>>SMITH: And then we go.
And then a lot of
times too, we also just
like when pilots are
doing pilot training
and they run these simulators.
They do the same thing with us.
They say, well, what happens
when so-and-so falls off
a cliff?
What's the protocol?
Bam, bam, how are
we going to do that?
What happens if someone brings
back a bad biological agent?
What do we do then?
>>GEORGE: Has that happened?
>>SMITH: Yes, that has
happened, where we got
quarantined for two
weeks-- all of us.
>>GEORGE: Jeez.
>>SMITH: And luckily, none of
us got-- it was on the suits.
>>GEORGE: Well, what
if this organism
got loose throughout
the planet here?
>>SMITH: Well, this facility is
a vacuum air-sealed-tight room
where these portals
come through.
And what they do is they
have special devices
kind of like a Rife
machine, but a lot larger
that can scan like a
whole football field.
And it knows if there's a
foreign microorganism on you,
like a virus-- a
negative ionic--
some sort of negative
cellular material.
It knows how to pick this up.
And immediately as
you come through that,
you've got to stop.
>>GEORGE: Alarms go off
and everything else.
>>SMITH: Alarms go
off and they have
to sanitize the whole room.
They use ethylene oxide gas.
They use a frequency devices.
And you just get blasted.
OK, and then from
there, you have
to go through a separate part of
the building that's an airlock
and sit in there
like an HBO chamber.
And then they have to monitor
you for like eight hours.
And you're just
sitting in there.
And you can't use the restroom.
You can't do anything.
And then at the same time
after that gets cleared,
then you go through
a regular what
would be called
decontamination, where they just
go you walk through this
hallway and it sprays you
with water and all different
types of chemicals.
And then you're
free to change out.
And then you have to go
through a two-week evaluation
where you're put in
confinement with the team.
And they have special
underground apartment complexes
for this reason that's
completely airtight sealed.
And then you just
kind of live there.
>>GEORGE: Do you
have friends that you
have gone on missions with that
you still collaborate with?
>>SMITH: All my friends and
colleagues have all passed away
in January from that accident.
>>GEORGE: All of them?
>>SMITH: All of them.
>>GEORGE: You're
the only one left.
>>SMITH: Correct.
>>GEORGE: How do
you feel about that?
>>SMITH: Hurt.
>>GEORGE: Good people?
>>SMITH: They were my friends.
>>GEORGE: Is this
program worth it, Emery?
>>SMITH: Anything to
advance our technology
I think is positive,
even if they
use some of the technology
for the negative.
There's always good things
that come out of it.
And we do need to
broaden our horizons.
We can't be quarantined
to this planet forever,
regardless of what's going
to happen in the future--
if we get along or not.
We need to be educated.
The world needs to be
educated and informed
about all these amazing things
that are happening out there
behind our backs
and utilize that
for the good of the
planet and the people.
And I have a lot of
hope that a lot of this
is going to come forward
with other people.
And I'm trying to
get, of course,
people that were associated
with that program
to come out and
maybe do something,
but that's a long shot.
It's more of getting
people that scientifically
have the background that been
involved with those projects.
>>GEORGE: Would you do it
again given the chance?
>>SMITH: Sure.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
>>GEORGE: These
missions that you've
been on, have you stumbled
across extraterrestrials
or had some planned
contact with them?
>>SMITH: None of
my missions I was
face to face with
an extraterrestrial.
We have seen videos from
past missions of other people
meeting extraterrestrials
through portals, some
even having set up
meetings through these.
But I have never
seen anything face
to face during my
adventures through that.
>>GEORGE: Why are the
missions so short--
15 minutes, 1/2 hour?
Why aren't they longer?
>>SMITH: Because
they haven't really--
the longest mission I've
ever been on is two hours,
but it usually only lasts
about 15 minutes to 30 minutes
because it's like a safe zone
for that portal to be open.
It's only open for a
certain amount of time
to the certain area at certain--
like I said, the planet
has to be just right.
Even if it's the
man-made one, there's
still a lot of things
that are in place
they haven't figured out.
So to play it safe, even
though it's open for 12 hours,
we just do one in, one
out and play it safe
and keep that mortality going.
>>GEORGE: So they're not
quite sure what could happen,
so they call things quick?
>>SMITH: Yes.
>>GEORGE: The portals that
you use for your missions--
what are they?
Are they man-made or are they
already part of the planet?
>>SMITH: Well, they
have built the one
I was going through on top
of one that's already there.
So they're utilizing not
only man-made energy,
but they're also using the
energy from the planet.
>>GEORGE: Does every portal
go to a different place?
>>SMITH: Yes, I mean,
as far as that I
know that all the portals are
going to different places.
And there are some
portals, of course,
that the ETs have
that they're utilizing
that can go multiple
places using
that ley lines of the universe.
>>GEORGE: Can we
though direct a portal
to go to a specific place?
Do we have that
kind of technology?
>>SMITH: No, not yet.
Basically, what we do is
we wait for a certain time
where we know that this is
where this portal is going.
And when that happens--
and this is how they've been
sending drones through--
>>GEORGE: You jump on it.
>>SMITH: --and then
we jump on that.
We jump on that wormhole
that's open for 12 hours.
>>GEORGE: The portal
you go through
is the same portal you
come back in, isn't it?
>>SMITH: Yeah, it's
the same portal.
Sometimes since it's been
going on for so long,
they have actually built
a similar man-made portal
on the other side utilizing the
ancient portal that was already
there.
So that frame I was
telling you about sometimes
is located in that same area.
>>GEORGE: We're concerned about
contamination and viruses,
but what about
psychological things too?
Anything happen to people?
>>SMITH: Not so much.
I mean, these people know
what they're getting into.
They go through huge
psychological evaluations.
I've had more incidents being
in the military in hot zones
where people were freaking out a
little bit more than the usual.
It is a different
type of environment
because you know
you're going there.
You kind of almost volunteered
to go on these missions.
You have accepted
that responsibility.
You know it could get
very scary very quickly.
You know that you
might not come back.
So these people, as far as
I'm concerned, are heroes.
They're the real
superheroes of the planet.
And they're doing something
because they believe in it
and they believe what they're
doing is not harmful to anyone.
And even though it
may be-- you know,
we are just a group of soldiers
going in to complete a mission.
And that's what we do.
>>GEORGE: So you
collect all this data.
What do you do
with it afterwards?
>>SMITH: Well, I think they're
just making a database,
like we do with ETs and
extraterrestrial craft,
and logging in.
They know where we're at.
They know if we're on Mars
or in another solar system.
And I think they're just looking
at different habitable places
to maybe rebuild the
civilization here on Earth
in other places that are safe.
I think all that
data is being put
into some big secure
database for evaluation.
>>GEORGE: What's the
protocol for taking samples?
>>SMITH: Well, it depends
what kind of sample it is.
Vacuum containers-- they
look like a sunglass holder.
And we have bigger
ones too that could
be as large as about three feet
in diameter, like an egg shape.
And these things are
vacuum pressured.
And sometimes, special gas can
be introduced into the unit.
And some also can freeze
things, like instantaneously.
>>GEORGE: So different tubes
for different specimens.
>>SMITH: Different tubes
There's only like two or
three different tubes,
but they all kind of
do the same thing.
Once you put
something in, you can
take the air out that
was from this atmosphere
and fill it full
of a special gas
or you can basically
add-- it has
a nitrogen-like thing on it.
It can freeze it instantaneously
and remove the gas
because anything that comes
back that was open there,
you have to be careful.
And the robots
know how many parts
per million of
particulate matter
are floating around
the atmosphere.
Because even in
this room right now,
you have trillions of
particles just here,
but you can't see it.
And we have to know are
those particulate matter--
is that going to create
something back home?
Is that going to be a threat--
>>GEORGE: Contamination.
>>SMITH: --a contamination.
So as soon as that
comes through,
all of those containers are put
into a another giant container
and is shipped off somewhere.
>>GEORGE: Safety purposes.
>>SMITH: Right.
And then is shipped
off somewhere, right.
>>GEORGE: By going through
these portals personally,
what have you gained from it?
What has it done for you?
>>SMITH: Well, it inspires me.
It gives me even more
hope that there's
more stuff out there
that can help the Earth
and help mankind.
I have a great compassion for
all these different places.
And some places I don't
think we should be
because they're so beautiful.
I don't want us to
contaminate them.
>>GEORGE: Is it exciting
to go through these?
>>SMITH: It's always exciting.
I mean, there's always
something that happens
that never happened before.
And it always gets down
and written in the books
that this has never happened.
And to be part of that
was really exciting.
>>GEORGE: What is
this technology done
for the planet--
the fact that we can do this?
>>SMITH: It's
advancement in science.
I mean, everything
we bring back,
like I said, has to do
with something that they're
going to create to
help our longevity,
to help the protection of us.
I would like to see
a shift in that,
so they start utilizing it to
clean up the planet because I'm
more about let's get
the planet fixed first
before we live for
another 200 years.
That's great-- love it.
But without the planet
being fixed up--
because they could be turning
this technology around
that we get from
these other planets
and utilize it to
clean up Earth.
Special dirt that absorbs
radiation and things like that
that they have brought back--
and this can be manufactured
is what I'm getting at.
Imagine dumping that into
an area of the ocean that
can clean out a 500-hectare
area of radiation in the water.
So there's these
amazing technologies
that are coming through that
are kind of being utilized
in the wrong way,
that at the same time
can be engineered if they've
got the right people on board
or get the technologies into the
right people's hands to utilize
it to help the Earth.
>>GEORGE: Emery,
great information.
Thank you.
>>SMITH: You're welcome, George.
>>GEORGE: This is
"Cosmic Disclosure."
Thanks for watching.
>> Coming this season
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
where people share their
clandestine involvement with
government agencies,
the military,
and secret space programs.
>> The combat suit system that
was used was a combat heavy
suit--
basically, walking
tanks like a mech.
>> They're giving them
biological samples in trade
for the technology
that we're building.
>> There's multiple craft all
around the planet all the time.
There could be one
right now above us
and you wouldn't see it
because it would be cloaked,
because they have that
ability to do that.